Well come back and this lesson is all about a challenge.
So what I want you to do is create a loop to 1000 grab all the numbers that are multiples of five.
So five 10 15 20 all the way up to a thousand add them together.
I would put the numbers as are being added together.
So you put five.
We put 10 and then we have a running total So a sum total the value that we're adding in.
And then what the total is as we're looping through.
And then lastly after the loop completes looping through then lets put the complete total.
So let's try that out.
So open up your editor try it out and I'll show you the solution come up.
So get an opportunity to try that out.
So here's the solution.
So we need to set a variable to hold our total.
So right now we're even to out at zero.
Let's do a for loop and we're going to use variable x.
Started this one at zero and initially we want to create our loop.
So looping all the way up to 1000.
And don't forget to have the increment of x so as to make sure that we have a way out of each other.
So we've got all of this loops and now we need to apply a condition.
So the conditions work really well within loops because they allow us to apply logic on an ever changing
value.
And we know that there is quite a lot of numbers.
Thousand numbers all the way 10000.
So I want to be really precise in picking out though those values.
So let's do our condition and we're going to check to see if the value of x is has a modulus 5.
So basically we're dividing it by 5.
And if there's a remainder then we know that it's not divisible by 5.
And we need to get to the next number.
But if there is no remainder.
So if it's equal to zero then we know that this is a number that we can divide by 5 and we can include
it within our output.
So now we are picking up all those values of 5 and let's do
let's actually just do it right within the output.
So two outputs
interface to smell.
So output interface to melt.
And then this is where you go out in her statement and then at the end of it.
This is where when I add total equals and then whatever our value of total is going to be.
So there's a few things that we need to do within this condition.
So the first one is we need to grab the value of x so tall
equals total plus the value of x.
So we started out with five and we know that once we add five to our running total then the total is
going to constantly change.
So let's value of x and y do equals let's add X in there and then add in something else here where we've
got so total really matter what type string content you're placing in here.
So basically this is going to be the current total.
So let's try this out refreshed and yes quite a lot of stuff there we should do some line breaks.
So it's more readable.
So let's see what happens now.
So let's start at the beginning.
So we've got a value of zero sum total is zero.
Next we have a value of five.
So because we don't have any other values in there.
So that's where 5 comes in and add some spacing there to make it even more readable.
So next we've got 10 but we already had a sum total of five.
So I end up with 15 15.
And the value is 15 Swaine up with 30 30 plus 20 50.
So all the way and we loop through all of all of these numbers and we end up with a total.
And this should be an equal sign.
So we have to out and refresh.
So there we go.
So out of all those fives all the way through and we've ended up with a total of ninety nine thousand
five hundred and we can just as easily adjust this to ace.
So accounting by 8s.
And we can see that 8 16:24 30 to 40 48 and so all we're doing is just adding those together as we're
finding those numbers that are divisible by 8 with any remainder.
So that's the solution to the challenge and the next lesson I guess or even more you can do with loops.
There's a lot of power with loops and there's a lot of things you can do especially when it comes to
arrays and objects.
So that's coming up.